### CnvFilterAnnotations tool help
	CnvFilterAnnotations (2021_06-89-gbbd16264)
	
	Filter a copy-number variant list in TSV format based on variant annotations.
	
	The filter definition file lists one filter per line using the following syntax:
	name[tab]param1=value[tab]param2=value...
	
	The order in the filter definition file defines the order in which the filters are applied.
	
	Several of the filters offer more than one action:
	  FILTER - Remove variants if they do not match the filter.
	  REMOVE - Remove variants if they match the filter.
	  KEEP - Force variants to be kept, even if filtered out by previous filter steps.
	
	The following filters are supported:
	CNV OMIM genes             Filter for OMIM genes i.e. the 'OMIM' column is not empty.
	                           Parameters:
	                             action - Action to perform [default=FILTER] [valid=REMOVE,FILTER]
	CNV allele frequency       Filter for CNV allele frequency in the analyzed cohort.
	                           Parameters:
	                             max_af - Maximum allele frequency [default=0.05] [min=0.0] [max=1.0]
	CNV compound-heterozygous  Filter for compound-heterozygous CNVs.
	                           Mode 'CNV-CNV' detects genes with two or more CNV hits.
	                           Mode 'CNV-SNV/INDEL' detectes genes with exactly one CNV and exactly one small variant hit (after other filters are applied).
	                           Parameters:
	                             mode - Compound-heterozygotes detection mode. [default=n/a] [valid=n/a,CNV-CNV,CNV-SNV/INDEL]
	CNV copy-number            Filter for CNV copy number.
	                           Parameters:
	                             cn - Copy number [valid=0,1,2,3,4,5+] [non-empty]
	CNV gene constraint        Filter based on gene constraint (gnomAD o/e score for LOF variants).
	                           Note that gene constraint is most helpful for early-onset severe diseases.
	                           For details on gnomAD o/e, see https://macarthurlab.org/2018/10/17/gnomad-v2-1/
	                           Parameters:
	                             max_oe_lof - Maximum gnomAD o/e score for LoF variants [default=0.35] [min=0.0] [max=1.0]
	CNV gene overlap           Filter based on gene overlap.
	                           Parameters:
	                             complete - Overlaps the complete gene. [default=true]
	                             exonic/splicing - Overlaps the coding or splicing region of the gene. [default=true]
	                             intronic/intergenic - Overlaps the intronic/intergenic region of the gene only. [default=false]
	CNV log-likelihood         Filter for CNV log-likelihood.
	                           The log-likelihood is the logarithm of the ratio between likelihoods of the no CN change model vs the CN equal to the reported state model (bigger is better). If scale by region is checked the total log-likelihood value is normalized by the number of regions.
	                           Note: when applied to multi-sample CNV lists, each log-likelihood entry must exceed the cutuff!
	                           Note: this filter works for CNV lists generated by ClinCNV only!
	                           Note: log-likelihood scaling can only be applied to CNV lists with regions count
	                           Parameters:
	                             min_ll - Minimum log-likelihood [default=20] [min=0.0]
	                             scale_by_regions - Scale log-likelihood by number of regions. [default=false]
	CNV pathogenic CNV overlap Filter for overlap with pathogenic CNVs from the NGSD i.e. the 'ngsd_pathogenic_cnvs' column is not empty.
	CNV polymorphism region    Filter for overlap with CNP regions.
	                           Parameters:
	                             column - CNP column name [default=overlap af_genomes_imgag]
	                             max_ol - Maximum overlap [default=0.95] [min=0.0] [max=1.0]
	CNV q-value                Filter for CNV q-value.
	                           The q-value is the p-value corrected for the number of CNVs detected (smaller is better)
	                           Note: when applied to multi-sample CNV lists, each q-value must be below the cutuff!
	                           Note: this filter works for CNV lists generated by ClinCNV only!
	                           Parameters:
	                             max_q - Maximum q-value [default=1] [min=0.0] [max=1.0]
	CNV regions                Filter for number of regions/exons.
	                           Parameters:
	                             regions - Minimum number of regions [default=3] [min=1]
	CNV size                   Filter for CNV size (kilobases).
	                           Parameters:
	                             size - Minimum CNV size in kilobases [default=0] [min=0]
	CNV z-score                Filter for CNV z-score.
	                           The z-score determines to what degee that the region was a statistical outlier when compared to the reference samples.
	                           Note: for deletions z-scores lower than the negative cutoff pass.
	                           Note: this filter works for CnvHunter CNV lists only!
	                           Parameters:
	                             min_z - Minimum z-score [default=4] [min=0.0] [max=10.0]
	
	Mandatory parameters:
	  -in <file>      Input structural variant list in BEDPE format.
	  -out <file>     Output structural variant list in BEDPE format.
	  -filters <file> Filter definition file.
	
	Special parameters:
	  --help          Shows this help and exits.
	  --version       Prints version and exits.
	  --changelog     Prints changeloge and exits.
	  --tdx           Writes a Tool Definition Xml file. The file name is the application name with the suffix '.tdx'.
	
### CnvFilterAnnotations changelog
	CnvFilterAnnotations 2021_06-89-gbbd16264
	
	2020-05-25 Initial version of the tool. Based on VariantFilterAnnotations.
[back to ngs-bits](https://github.com/imgag/ngs-bits)